[PL-Doc] Centralized Notification (#9989)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/notifications/centralised-notification.md

sidebar_position: 3
---

import PipeEvents from './static/set_pipeline_events.png';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import React from 'react';

:::info Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the **`PL_CENTRAL_NOTIFICATIONS`** feature flag enabled.
Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable this feature flag.
:::

## Overview

Harness Centralised Notifications allow you to send notifications based on rules and conditions across pipelines and delegates. You can configure and manage alerts to stay informed about critical events in your Harness environment.

You can configure centralised notifications for:

- **Pipelines**: Get notified about pipeline events like success, failure, or stage completion
- **Delegates**: Receive alerts when delegates disconnect, expire, or are about to expire

## Pipeline Notifications

:::info Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the **`PIPE_CENTRALISED_NOTIFICATION`** feature flag enabled. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable this feature flag.
:::

> Centralised Notifications for pipelines allow you to configure notifications for multiple pipelines at once instead of setting them up individually. You can create rules that apply to all organisations or specified organisations.

Author: @abhishekharness resolved here - [c042ab9](https://github.com/harness/developer-hub/pull/9989/commits/c042ab951674ea66eaf8f7879a5c960ad1e5954f)

You can configure centralised notifications for:

- **Pipelines**: Get notified about pipeline events like success, failure, or stage completion
- **Delegates**: Receive alerts when delegates disconnect, expire, or are about to expire

This guide explains how to configure notifications across different [scopes](/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/rbac-in-harness/#permissions-hierarchy-scopes) (Account, Organization, or Project).

## Configuration Steps

This guide uses the Account scope as an example, but the steps apply to Organization and Project scopes as well.

### Step 1: Access Notification Management

1. Navigate to **Account Settings** → **General** → **Notifications Management**

   ![account-level-notification](./static/organization-setting-notification-management.png)

### Step 2: Create a New Notification

1. In the **Overview** section, provide a **Notification Name** and click **Continue**.

2. Select the appropriate **Resource Type** (Pipeline or Delegate). Proceed with the configuration based on your selected resource type.

### Step 3: Configure Resource-Specific Settings

<Tabs>
<TabItem queryString="pipeline" value="Pipeline" Label="pipeline" default>

> ### Pipeline Notifications

Reviewer: Can you please lower down the heading level for Pipeline Notifications and Delegate Notifications? The right sidebar is messed up.

---
title: Centralised notification
description: Configure notifications based on specific rules and conditions in pipelines, delegates, and other Harness components to keep teams informed of critical events.
sidebar_position: 3
---

import PipeEvents from './static/set_pipeline_events.png';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::info Note
Currently, the Centralised Notification feature is behind the feature flag `PL_CENTRAL_NOTIFICATIONS`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable them.
:::

> Harness Centralized Notifications enable you to send notifications based on rules and conditions across pipelines, delegates, and other Harness modules. With notifications management, you can easily configure and manage alerts to stay informed about critical events in your workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness Centralized Notifications enable you to send notifications based on rules and conditions across pipelines, delegates, and other Harness entities. With notifications management, you can easily configure and manage alerts to stay informed about critical events.
```

Author: resolved here [b786272](https://github.com/harness/developer-hub/pull/9989/commits/b786272b18a2613fc9cf27a05e2b8c69cec0c6bf)

Centralized notifications can be configured for the following resource types:

1. Pipeline 
2. Delegate 

> 3. Chaos Experiment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Service Level Objectives

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: resolved here [b786272](https://github.com/harness/developer-hub/pull/9989/commits/b786272b18a2613fc9cf27a05e2b8c69cec0c6bf)

   Stage start, success, and failure events apply to all stages in a pipeline. For more granular control (such as specific stages), consider using [pipeline-level notifications](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/cd-steps/notify-users-of-pipeline-events.md).
   :::

   Provide a **Condition Name**, select relevant **Pipeline Events**, and click **Continue** to choose the notification channel.

   <img src={PipeEvents} width="500"/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Delegate" label="Delegate">

### Centralized Notifications for Delegates

3. Choose **Delegate** as the **Resource Type**.

   You can either notify: **All Delegates**, or Only Delegates that match specific **tags** (up to five supported)

   ![delegate-resource-type](./static/delegate-resource-type.png)

4. Click **+ Add Condition** to set up alerts based on delegate events.

   ![delegate-condition](./static/delegate-condition.png)

   Enter a **Condition Name**, and select from the following **Delegate Events**:

        * Delegate Disconnected
        * Delegate Expired
        * Delegate Expiring in 1 to 4 Weeks

   Proceed by clicking **Continue** to configure your notification channel.

</TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Reviewer: Separate out the Select channel flow completely as it is going to be common for all resources. Also, notification template is specific to pipeline.

Reviewer: We can chat on deciding the flow for this doc.
